A Trust Evaluation Framework for Mobile Devices
and Applications [Leon: I would try sth different like
Trust Evaluation in Mobile Devices: Empirical Study]
Bart
Abstract—Evaluating trust is a challenge for many computer
systems. Smartphones and mobile devices install software from a
wide range of sources. As these devices become more popular, the
risks of associated malware will become more significant. One of
the features of these platforms is that they are rich in sensors1.
These sensors can be a risk to privacy in that they could leak
information about the user and user activities. On the other side,
they can also be used as an advantage if they can be used to
evaluate trust.
This paper builds a hierarchical security evaluation [Yanyan:
eval security or trust?] framework that uses sensors to evaluate
trust and detect anomalies. We examine the results of two
empirical studies where this framework is applied. The first study
involves monitoring resource utilization. For example, malicious
code injected into an app or OS utility could manifest as an
increased consumption in system resources, such as CPU or
network communication. Sensor values like battery level and CPU
utilization can detect this. The second study involves erroneous
sensor values. For example, malwares that could produce an intentional
or inadvertant effect on sensors, such as accelerometers
and GPS receivers, could be detected by measuring anomalies in
these sensor values. Our approach is two-fold: evaluating trust
based on metrics and models, [Yanyan: more specific what the
metrics and models are?] and using this evaluation to detect
anomalies as a way to improve security in general.
[Leon: I think this style is more appropriate for the Introduction, not for the abstract but definitely I am leaving it to Richard to decide and edit]

 I. INTRODUCTION
 Android-based mobile devices and smartphones are becoming
increasingly popular. The number of mobile phones sold
has surpassed the number of laptops, reaching XXXin 2014 [].
Google is reported[] to have more than a billion active users of
Android-based devices. As their popularity increases, so does
their value as a target for malware injection. This is particularly
true for low cost end smartphones sold in developing
countries. According to [M.Zheng, M.Sun, J.C.S. Lui DrodRay: A security evaluation system for customized Android firmwares ASIA CCS’14, June 4-6, 2014, Kyoto, Japan, ACM, pp.471-481] some vendors there intentionally
create conditions facilitating various security violations in
these devices. [Leon: I believe I know the ref but I need some
time to find it out]  There are many possible risks, associated
with using compromised devices. Nowadays due to universal
interconnection and interdependence the possible compromise
of a mobile device will affect not only applications executed
on it and its users but all other parts of a networked computer
and communication infrastructure. With the development of
the mobile communication platforms, which share different
devices resources, applications and data, this trend will become
stronger and stronger. In order to facilitate an introduction
of the common cyberinfrastructure and promote collaboration
between various devices and users, we need to develop models
1In this work, smartphone sensors are broadly defined as hardware components
that can record phenomena about the physical world.
 and methods that will evaluate trust, which other infrastructure
parts may have in a particular device or an application,
and present this evaluation to other participants. The trust
assessment values could be applied to optimize data collection
and communication schemes in order to satisfy multiple
criteria such as overall system performance and/or resource
consumption. Also, the user of a device may benefit from the
trust evaluation as it might provide useful information about
areas in need of improvement, and it could be combined with
other techniques for non-signature based intrusion detection.
The more sophisticated mobile devices become, the more
complex the threat model is, and the more opportunities
for vulnerabilities appear. Finding viruses and other malware using
software signatures is less and less likely to work. What is
needed Signature based intrusion detection systems have to be complemented is a system-wide approach that involves assessing trust
for the different components by detecting anomalies in sensor originated data sensor
behavior and history of the component.
[Richard: Leon, are the following paragraphs what you had
in mind?] [Leon: I am not sure why you are talking about it and where it is used later]
 The concepts of trust, trusted code base and trusted computing
platform (TCP) have been discussed by many others [?].
however, it seems that the problem of quantification is largely
unsolved, especially with respect to complex systems. 
[Leon: again, I am not sure why you need the next three sentences. I would replace them with something like this:
The paper develops a novel approach that combines:
1)	trust self-evaluation of separate mobile devices based on a number of factors, such as the applications composition, device’s components and system parameters and settings, privacy protection level,
2)	trust evaluation adjustment based on collaboration between various devices and comparison of the results given by them.]
If one
looks at individual platform within a system, one can simplify
the problem by establishing a trusted code base (TCB). This
is an important principle of secure design, in which the size
of the TCB should be as small as possible, yet contain
sufficient functionality that all other software components on
the platform can be built on top of it. Security restrictions on
these other higher levels are imposed using reference monitors.
[Richard: How does the Android OS provide security checks?]
 There are two problems that must be solved for multiplatform
systems: (1) combining trust metrics from the individual
TCPs and (2) understanding and measuring trust over
time. Yan and Cofta [? ] point out that even if one can establish
a level of trust between two platforms, the more complex
problem is sustaining trust over time. This paper focuses
primarily on the first problem of combining information to
produce a trust metric for the whole system. Yet, the nature
of our work points to ways in which this could be used over
time. By comparing sensor data from different systems, one
can periodically check for consistency.
This paper presents the development of the novel hierarchical
framework that enables the evaluation of trust for a
network of mobile devices. As a complex concept, the trust
depends on numerous factors. The hierarchical structure allows
for the inclusion of various trust evaluation systems used to
assess diverse trusted components as well as their integration in
order to produce the cumulative trust score. Also, it facilitates
2
 the framework extension by inclusion of new trust component
evaluation, facilitating evaluation results improvement for a
particular device as well as the evaluation adaptation to diverse
devices and applications. [Richard: I don’t understand the
previous sentence]  The paper describes the version developed
for using on Android-based devices.
The framework design principles and an overall architecture
are described in section II. Also, this section briefly describes
a few of the trust evaluation metrics included in the current
implementation, while more details about a few of them are
provided in sections III-V. In particular, section III discusses
metrics whose calculation is based on measuring the device
utilization such as voltage supply, CPU and network bandwidth
usage. Section IV describes metrics based on multiple sensors
that impact the level of privacy supported. Section V discusses
the possible ways in which trust evaluation can be verified and
adjusted, and it describes some practical cases that have been
implemented.

II. FRAMEWORK UMBRELLA ARCHITECTURE
AND DESIGN
A hierarchical trust analysis can look at the entire system
and combine measurements from multiple sources, making
it more powerful than measuring a single component or
layer. This section discusses a comprehensive mechanism
that provides a scalable and extendable methodology of trust
evaluation and analysis which is implemented on Androidbased
mobile devices. [Richard: why is it limited to Android?]
 Trust evaluation of a mobile smartphone device is a complex
subject, which depends on multiple characteristics, e.g. sensor
accuracy, the rate of encrypted messages, and/or the probability
of a system’s breakdown over a given period of time. Its
evaluation should integrate various metrics ranging from the
accuracy and reliability of the data sources to the security of
the procedures and tools used. The major research challenge
of the framework design is integrating the numerous metrics
needed to characterize a device’s trustworthiness while working
with limited resources and processing power. We address
this challenge by hierarchically structuring the composition of
trust metrics as well as by designing a specialized calculus
to evaluate the overall trust metric. Therefore, the major
innovative emphasis in our framework design is put on the
integration of a wide variety of indicators and their evaluation
procedures. The framework procedures output the overall trust
evaluation indicators and additionally calculate the individual
product of metrics characterizing system features which are
then used to produce recommendations for improvement. The
trust evaluation will facilitate decision-making, improve performance
and increase accountability through the collection,
analysis, and reporting of relevant performance-related data.
This design facilitates the framework extension through the
inclusion of other metrics, as well as the ease of modification
and improvement (see fig ?? ) Current implementation of this
framework provides the following metric functionality:
1) Analysis of the installed applications through the
application-specific metadata provided by the Play
store. Applications represent the largest security and
privacy risk to a device and user’s data. The data
provided by the Play store leverages the experiences
of millions of users and holds all data associated
with the distribution of an application including its
associated documentation. The Play store also provides
meta-information about applications which gives useful
characteristic data about an application. These data can
be used to assess an individual application’s risk. Rules
were generated to classify each application into a risk
impact class based on this meta-data. The combined
trust classes of all applications installed on a device
would be used to create a security risk rating for the
whole device.
2) The usage verification of security tools embedded into
the operating system and proper preventative security
practices. Android provides users with many different
tools which increase the security and privacy of
their devices in addition to updates to patch exposed
vulnerabilities. When properly used, these tools improve
the security of the devices. In order to gather
a comprehensive overview of the software running on
a mobile device an analysis of the operating system and
user settings is performed. First the operating system is
checked to confirm that it is running the most recent
version available. Second the personal security settings
on the device are examined to determine if the user
is utilizing the appropriate tools to secure the device.
These operating system verification checks combined
generate a score, which is used in the security and
privacy framework operation result.
3) The trust evaluation based on the level of privacy
provided. The spurious output of a device’s internal
sensors can sometimes indicate the existence of a privacy/
security problem that would be missed by the other
metrics. Most mobile devices now come equipped with
a variety of sophisticated sensors which are capable
of very accurate measurements of their surrounding
environment. As the data from these sensors are used in
more security critical applications the importance that
these data remain accurate and legitimate should not
be underestimated. For example, data from the GPS
sensor can be verified to be trustworthy and assigned a
trust rating. The combination of ratings from all sensors
would produce the devices sensor trust score.
Unlike other reported tools available, our framework has
an umbrella structure that allows for integration of diverse
trust evaluation mechanisms and results. This open architecture
can also be extended to include self-learning capabilities to
allow for its optimization towards a particular device and a
criteria set. Each of these procedures given above generates a
security risk rating, which is then integrated into the umbrella
framework. This framework takes into account the varied
landscape of mobile devices and is designed to be flexible and
easily adaptable to the changing security environment. Based
on this design and contribution of each of the procedures could
be adjusted depending on the target. [Richard: Leon, you could
put your figure here] 
I believe you have inserted already my figure. You might like to increase its size to make it readable.


Overall, this still looks less as a paper and more like a few pieces. I hope Richard will take care. After that the paper? will need very heavy editing.

Best,
Leon
